{"references": [], "title": "Monte Carlo Statistical Method", "abstract": "La simulation est devenue dans la dernière décennie un outil essentiel du traitement statistique de modèles complexes et de la mise en oeuvre de techniques statistiques avancées, comme le bootstrap ou les méthodes d'inférence simulée. Ce livre présente les éléments de base de la simulation de lois de probabilité (génération de variables uniformes et de lois usuelles) et de leur utilisation en Statistique (intégration de Monte Carlo, optimisation stochastique). Après un bref rappel sur les chaînes de Markov, les techniques plus spécifiques de Monte Carlo par chaînes de Markov (MCMC) sont présentées en détail, à la fois du point de vue théorique (validité et convergence) et du point de vue de leur implémentation (accélération, choix de paramètres, limitations). Les algorithmes d'échantillonnage de Gibbs sont ainsi distingués des méthodes générales de Hastings-Metropolis par leur plus grande richesse théorique. Les derniers chapitres contiennent un exposé critique sur l'état de l'art en contrôle de convergence de ces algorithmes et une présentation unifiée des diverses applications des méthodes MCMC aux modèles à données manquantes. De nombreux exemples statistiques illustrent les méthodes présentées dans cet ouvrage destiné aux étudiants de deuxième et troisième cycles universitaires en Mathématiques Appliquées ainsi qu'aux chercheurs et praticiens désirant utiliser les méthodes MCMC. Monte Carlo statistical methods, particularly those based on Markov chains, are now an essential component of the standard set of techniques used by statisticians. This new edition has been revised towards a coherent and flowing coverage of these simulation techniques, with incorporation of the most recent developments in the field. In particular, the introductory coverage of random variable generation has been totally revised, with many concepts being unified through a fundamental theorem of simulation There are five completely new chapters that cover Monte Carlo control, reversible jump, slice sampling, sequential Monte Carlo, and perfect sampling. There is a more in-depth coverage of Gibbs sampling, which is now contained in three consecutive chapters. The development of Gibbs sampling starts with slice sampling and its connection with the fundamental theorem of simulation, and builds up to two-stage Gibbs sampling and its theoretical properties. A third chapter covers the multi-stage Gibbs sampler and its variety of applications. Lastly, chapters from the previous edition have been revised towards easier access, with the examples getting more detailed coverage. This textbook is intended for a second year graduate course, but will also be useful to someone who either wants to apply simulation techniques for the resolution of practical problems or wishes to grasp the fundamental principles behind those methods. The authors do not assume familiarity with Monte Carlo techniques (such as random variable generation), with computer programming, or with any Markov chain theory (the necessary concepts are developed in Chapter 6). A solutions manual, which covers approximately 40% of the problems, is available for instructors who require the book for a course. oui", "authors": ["Christian P. Robert", "George Casella"], "citations": [276462022, 282217754, 281145150, 288496726, 287405758, 288989346, 284219590, 283762228, 283531376, 283247152], "id": 41222435}